# TemporaryEssayToDelete

Section 1.


____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Table of Contents (click on a link to jump to that section)

* <a href="#Introduction">Introduction</a>
* <a href="#aboutus">Cognitive Issues</a>

____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________


<a name="Introduction"></a>

### Introduction

Dear Social Security Continuing Disability Review,

This essay/journal is to explain to you why I’m not working. The short answer is that I can’t. The long answer is that there are six reasons. I know that you are overworked and understaffed, so feel free to skip this essay if the information I already provided is enough for you to make the decision to continue my benefits. In case the already provided information is insufficient, the six reasons I'm not working are that I have cognitive issues, Non-24-Hour Sleep-Wake Disorder (where my whole circadian rhythm shifts later each day such that on average I go to sleep and wake up later each day than I did the day before, resulting in me sleeping around the clock), an inability to safely drive a car, an inability to form/sustain close bidirectional relationships (or really any real relationship) with other people (except for maybe my mother), a lack of motivation (although this varies based on my mood), and lastly I don't want to (I mean I felt that I wanted to work and have tried but it never worked out in real life for various reasons). It may be noteworthy that although I wrote most of this essay before year 2023, I added extra sentences at the ends of paragraphs and I added extra paragraphs at the end of the essay in an out-of-order manner, so dates of when things were written will not appear in chronological order. Also, even though exact dates appear, the reason they appear is not because I have a good memory for exact dates. Rather, I keep a link to this paper as a Google Doc saved on my phone and make additions to it with the current date at the time of writing mentioned in the addition. Other dates came out of things like online records and medical records. This body of writing started out as an expository essay and over time became a personal journal that I revisit regularly, with an expanded section on my social/interpersonal/personality issues (which in my opinion is my biggest and most unfixable problem). That section is the longest section in this body of writing and gives a better idea of what is wrong with me as a person.

____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

<a name="aboutus"></a>

### Cognitive Issues

Anyway, the first reason I'm not working is cognitive issues. I made a work attempt in October to November 2019 and I lasted less than 30 days because I cognitively could not do my job. You have to learn things when you start a new job and I couldn’t learn. Either that or I'll make a little progress and then later I will revert to my previous ways and the progress will be unlearned (this is what previously happened when instructors tried to train me how to be a bus driver, see paragraph on why I can't drive) - training me to do a job is an issue. This next example happened at a work attempt before the latest one (I'm not sure exactly when the cognitive issues first started as they happened very gradually), but I remember one time I was told instructions that I was to follow when I got to my desk, and by the time I got to my desk I forgot the instructions. I actually asked the guy at work if I could use my cell phone to record his instructions because I knew that I have trouble remembering things that are spoken to me and it's illegal to record a conversation without the other person's consent in some US states, but he refused to give consent for me to record. I need procedures and instructions to be in written form because I am much more likely than other people to forget them when they're just spoken. I mean if someone says something short, immediate, and direct like "You pick up that box now" I can do it (with them possibly needing to repeat the simple instruction once or at most twice if I'm not paying attention) but real work related procedures usually have multiple steps and there's often a time gap between when I get told the procedure and when I have to execute it, so when it comes to real world work procedures I have problems. I've tried to write down things that were spoken to me before but I can't read my own handwriting when I write fast and when I write legibly I write very slowly (for this reason I gave up trying to write down notes when I was in school and I just learned the information by reading and sometimes underlining or highlighting the textbooks). Continuing on the related subject of memory related issues, on 11/18/2022, while on vacation in Washington D.C., I went to my hotel's front desk to ask for late check-in and they asked me my room number, and even though I had been in that room for a week and taken a photo of the room number with my phone, I still told the front-desk guy the wrong room number, so I have specific little memory issues. For example, on 2/15/2023 I walked from the kitchen counter to the cupboard to get a packet of oatmeal, and when I got back to the counter, there was already a bowl with a packet of raw oatmeal in it, so apparently I already got myself a bowl of oatmeal to microwave for breakfast even though I had no recollection of having done that. Sometimes I send myself emails containing things I need to do or remember in the future, and I noticed that I emailed myself the same reminder (only worded slightly differently) on May 6, 2023 at both 9:22 AM and 9:45 AM and I had no knowledge or recollection that I had done this twice, so I forget stuff in a way that is more normal for a person in retirement than for a 29 year old. Sometimes I walk between two places that I have walked between maybe a hundred times and I don't recognize my surroundings and need to check Google Maps to make sure I followed the correct path—there's a very specific kind of memory which is used for navigation (and also some other things) that I lack. Like I think other people, when they drive around or are working with a web of computer code, they have some sort of mental map in their head which I lack. Anyway, sometimes I cannot absorb information or have issues focusing. I used to be able to read hundreds of pages in a single sitting (for example I remember as a kid I read a thick "Harry Potter" book in under 24 hours), but all the recent times I tried to read a novel I gave up after a few pages. Not only am I not able to focus for more than a few pages, but I keep forgetting the characters and names and having to go back and re-read because I'm lost while trying to read a book. I used to read through lots of books for fun, but years ago I gave up on that entirely. On 10/11/2022 I watched a YouTube video about the guy who invented artificial ammonium based fertilizer and the poisonous chlorine gas used in World War 1, and when they mentioned his name again I was like "Who is that?" and had to check the video description because I kept forgetting his name - I watched the video twice and as of 10/12/2022 (the next day) I still don't remember his name as my memory for names is very bad (for example on 11/12/2022 I tried to read the Wikipedia page for the TV show Parks and Recreation because I was considering watching it for the first time and I couldn't read the page because I couldn't keep in my head who each of the characters in the show are). To give you an idea of just how unreliable my memory for names is, my closest family members other than my parents are my cousins Karina and Kristina and I mixed up their names from time to time for about 10 years—I still sometimes mix up their nicknames ("Kika" and "Kara"). I tend to remember the first sound of a word or name and mix up words or names that start with the same sound. For example, I have repeatedly mixed up the names of the newspapers "The Wall Street Journal" and "The Washington Post" as well as the names of my second cousins "Amanda" and "Aryana". I have the apps “Pandora internet radio” and “Panera Bread” on my phone and I sometimes search for or pull up one when I was looking for the other because they both start with the same sound. Changing subjects to my concentration issue, when I listen to an audiobook or podcast, even if it's the best audiobook or podcast I've ever listened to and I actually have motivation (which is rare), I keep having to rewind and relisten to parts because I keep spacing out. At a previous work attempt I remember at meetings other employees would talk and I could never follow and understand what they were saying (I mean when they said "Hello" I understood that but when they would talk about technical stuff I couldn't understand and follow even though I have a relevant education in the technical stuff). On 2/27/2023 I attended a city committee meeting because I had a comment that I wanted to say and I noticed I had the same issue keeping focus and following what people were saying that I described in the previous sentence even though what was being said at the city meeting was not technical. When I was around 26 or 27 I got my psychiatrist Dr. Pushka to prescribe me Adderall (an ADHD medication) to try to help improve my focus in hopes that that would allow me to work, and I noticed my attention, in particular my visual attention, jumped around all over the place less, but my other cognitive issues like lacking a certain form of memory were not improved and so I could not do the computer programming job I used to do, and then after a month of Adderall I ended up needing a psychiatric hospitalization which might have been caused by the Adderall (Adderall can cause manic or psychotic episodes in the bipolar or schizophrenic), so I don't take Adderall anymore (and also my current psych doctor APRN Matamoros is under Memorial Outpatient Behavioral Health which doesn't prescribe controlled substances like Adderall). Dr. Pushka and I knew ahead of time that Adderall can trigger mania or psychosis in some people with bipolar disorder, but I risked it because I really wanted to work, and honestly I'm not even 100% sure if the hospitalization was caused by the Adderall because I took it for weeks before the hospitalization occurred, and Adderall doesn't take that long to work, so maybe the timing was a coincidence; I would have to take Adderall again for a month and have another hospitalization to know for sure that it wasn't a coincidence (but I have no plans to do that). When I was in kindergarten I was diagnosed with ADHD but I didn't receive any ADHD drugs (until I received the Adderall I mentioned in the previous couple sentences) because my parents were against the psychiatric medication of children. Anway, when I was a student in school I relied heavily on the textbooks because what was spoken in lecture did not stick in my head—if I had an exam question on something that was spoken in lecture but not written in the textbook I would normally get that question wrong. That was years ago, but switching back to more recent issues (like in year 2022), when I try to watch videos online on YouTube or Reddit I typically give up (or need to take a break) after a few minutes - simply watching an entire episode of a TV show is a feat for me. My concentration is sometimes longer than that, though, like on 8/16/2022 I managed to watch a 20 minute YouTube video with just one little pause, but it still surprised me how difficult that was for me given how funny and engaging the video was. On 9/20/2022 I watched an 11 minute episode of the children's cartoon SpongeBob SquarePants (each half hour TV block consists of two eleven minute episodes) and that was hard for me focusing wise—I lost concentration around 9 minutes in due to a pseudoseizure that resembled a simple partial seizure (focal non-impaired awareness seizure - see later on in this essay for an explanation of what that is—it’s not the whole body shaking that people typically think of when they think of a seizure—it feels to me more like a light switch going off in my brain and then weird sensations, experiences, or stuff in my brain happens). On 11/16/2022 I made it through an episode of SpongeBob SquarePants without experiencing one of those pseudoseizures until after it ended, so my pseudoseizures are pretty random and vary depending on the day. The pseudoseizures are very distracting and happen to me constantly, on most days, but again they're pretty random—there is no visible trigger or known cause. Anyway, I keep little notes that tell me how many minutes into a TV show I watched on my laptop because I often can't focus long enough to watch a whole episode in one sitting. Also sometimes I have to watch YouTube videos at slow speed, like 75% speed or 85% speed, to catch all the spoken words. I don’t know why, but I definitely noticed cognitive issues that developed with my psychiatric ones, and they haven't improved and tend to stay about the same or get worse with time (like over the long term). I’m adding this last sentence in February 2023 and the duration with which I’m able to focus on a movie or TV show is longer than it was in mid 2022, possibly due to depression going away (I hit 40 minutes of watch time with one pseudoseizure interruption), but my eyes keep involuntarily moving (in a similar pattern/rhythm as the pseudoseizures) and my muscles keep involuntarily contracting, which is distracting, and also the cognitive stuff (other than very short focus duration) which I mentioned before hasn’t improved and appears permanent. Now that I think about it, it appears that I actually have multiple different very specific cognitive issues where if you just looked at overall general intelligence I don't think that would be significantly below average (when I was a kid it was very above average) but I find very specific cognitive things that other people take for granted to be very hard or impossible.
